We're going to cover RDS services next.
It stands for Relational Data Services at Amazon.
All it is, is hosted MySQL server.
You can do a database in two ways,
you can spin off a virtual machine,
run your own database in the virtual machine by installing
MySQL or cloud whatever you want.
Or Amazon has made it easier for you.
They host database as a service,
you don't have to worry about that.
You use their service and run it and it's all patched up,
everything, but only thing is you got to pay a fee for it.
So we'll start off with RDS.
How to set up an RDS instance.
Sergio will cover that now.
If you go and log in onto your AWS console so you can follow along.
On this tab we go to Services.
And we want to go to Database RDS, click on that.
And from here you're going to want to click Get Started,
assuming you haven't created anything before.
And here's where you get to choose what type of database you want to use.
For our purpose we choose to use MySQL,
you could use anything like Postgre or Oracle,
but we're going to go and use MySQL. Select right there.
And if you want to use the free tier,
you're going to have to use this Dev/Test.
You don't want to use production because
that's something you're going to have to pay for,
so you do this Dev/Test.
Then it says, "This instance is intended for
outside use of production or under RDS free tier usage."
This is mostly just for testing and making sure you understand how RDS works.
Go ahead and click Next Step.
And we're just going to follow along through right here.
If you look at all these DB Instance Class.
For free tier you probably want to use micro,
assuming you're not going to have that big of a database anyways.
You can do Multi-AZ Deployment but we don't have to do that for our purposes.
And these default configurations are good for us.
Now a database identifier,
this is just going to be what you're going to refer to your database on AWS.
This isn't what your database is called,
it's just how you're going to refer to it through the AWS console.
So we'll call it myapplicationdb.
And you want Master Username.
Typically, on MySQL creates
the username is root, so we're going to go ahead and use root.
And you type in your password.
And you go ahead and click Next Step.
From here, we can follow along through here.
It's going to use the default VPC you should already have one set up,
Amazon does this for you, you don't have to worry about this.
Availability zone if you prefer to
use it somewhere close to where you are you can go and do that,
but we're going to choose No Preference.
And create New Security Group is the option you're going to want to
choose so that Amazon takes care of all of this for you.
If you use your own security group you might have issues where you can read the database,
but you can't change the database remotely on your own machine,
because you don't have the correct connection request types.
So Database Name, if you leave this empty,
it will just not create an actual database in your MySQL Service.
You can just leave this empty but I'm going to go ahead and create one called mydatabase,
just so that it will be ready for when we're ready to use it.
Database port default 3306 is perfect.
And we're going to go and put No for this Enable IAM DB Authentication,
so that we don't have to do anything beyond just connecting to the database,
and providing the password that we created,
the root and our password.
That's all we're going to need to act as if this is just the regular database.
What's cool about RDS is that you can backup as often as you'd like.
You can go from zero days to 35 days.
Every zero days, every 35 days.
Zero meaning it doesn't backup at all.
You could do it daily.
The default right here is set to weekly,
so we're going to go ahead and do that.
And you can also specify when you'd like your database to be backed up.
If you have no preference,
it would do it probably around midnight.
Or you could select your Window you say,
you want to do it at 5:00 pm every seven days.
So we're going to go and put No Preference.
And that will be it.
We can just go ahead and click Launch DB Instance.
Okay. It's being created.
So we're going to click view database Instance,
and you'll see right here it's creating.
Now this process takes awhile,
so it can take up to five to 10 minutes.
When it's done, you're going to want to be able to click here.
And on these tabs right here,
you want to click on the third one,
right here the Endpoint is going to be where you connect to,
but it's not available yet because it's currently being created.
And this takes about five minutes so we're going to go ahead and pause
real quick and we'll get back to you as soon as it's ready.
Okay. So at this point,
our RDS instance has been created.
And if you go ahead and look on your instance,
at this point hopefully yours is also created.
And you can see right here as Endpoint.
That's the host that you're going to use to connect to your MySQL instance.
So go ahead and copy this and to log on,
just go on to any server or any computer that has MySQL installed.
Type in mysql, you're going to specify the host.
And as you can see right now its attached port 3306 right here.
I would remove that and declare it explicitly in MySQL,
so remove that so all you have is the link.
And then do dash P for port
3306 and then you can log in using regular user root and password.
Go ahead and type in your password.
And let it load.
There you go.
You're connected to the MySQL instance that's on your RDS.
And to show that we can say, show databases.
You can see that this mydatabase which we just created,
that's what I called is already installed and it's ready to go.
So that wraps up using RDS.
At this point for PHP if you wanted to write explicit code,
you can use something like MySQLi which is a PHP extension for MySQL.
And connect to it like that.
You can also use Workbench to connect to this instance, yes?
Workbench will also work. Yes.
If you want a visual GUI to connect to this database you can use Workbench,
just point to this URL which he showed to have a GUI interface,
if you don't like command line,
that's one way to go.
So that covers RDS. We want to switch to S3 next.
Yeah.
So that finishes up one of the Services which is RDS.
We'd like to cover another frequently used Service which is S3.
I think it's Secure Server Storage, what does it stand, yeah?
Yeah. Secure Server Storage.
It's nothing but a really big hard drive.
So you can use it for storage of your files,
images, videos, whatever you want.
There are two ways to access it.
One, is command line another one is programmatically through its API.
So we'll touch upon each of those subjects next.
Okay. So this is the S3 page.
And if you wish to get to here,
you just click on Services and where it says Storage click on S3, and there you are.
Now to do something like work with a bucket,
everything is stored in what's called buckets.
And it's basically a directory tree.
A bucket can have buckets inside of them which each bucket is basically a directory.
So let's say you want to create a bucket on your AWS console.
You want to name it myapplication123,
this name has to be unique. Click Next.
Everything default is perfect.
Next and Next. Create bucket.
Creating a bucket is as simple as that. Now you have it here.
You can upload files through database console as well as if you'd like.
But we're going to show you what it's like to upload it through the terminal.
Since we've already installed the AWS client on our machines,
we can go ahead and come in here and type in AWS S3 help,
to look at some of the commands that you can use.
The most common one is copy or sync.
And an easy way to view your buckets is to do AWS S3 ls.
If you want to do that, AWS S3 ls,
just like in a shell script.
And it will show you the buckets.
Here you can see the bucket that we just created named, myapplication123.
So if I wanted to upload a file from my directory, let's say,
I create a file called myfile.text and say, this is my file.
And I want to upload this file to S3 without having to use the console,
I'm sorry, that the AWS, yeah,
the console over the browser.
You can run AWS S3 sync this directory,
well, I'm going to specify myfile,
you can sync an entire directory and it will recursively sync everything below it.
But, we're just going to choose to sync this file into S3,
this is how you denote an S3 bucket and I called it myapplication123.
So, you run this command and it said skipping file because it does not exist.
Okay, so we had a slight error with our file and we're just going to
show you what it's like to sync the entire directory up to S3.
So, if you look at the command line,
you want to type in AWS S3 sync this directory to the correct bucket,
and it uploads the files that you currently have in there.
If you go into your bucket,
myapplication123 and refresh, you will see that all of these files have been uploaded.
This is the default home directory in our instance.
And, that's how you would upload to S3 through the terminal.
You can also upload to S3 programmatically.
If you wanted to use something like PHP,
you'd have to install the SDK for PHP for AWS onto your machine.
The way you do that is first you'd have to install composer and then,
through composer you require the PHP SDK as this.
This curling composer will install it.
And then, you would have to type of file composer.json
because composer is a PHP dependency.
It allows you to install PHP dependencies just
by typing in require and then the name of the dependency.
So, you create a file name composer.json and in that file,
you type up something like this,
require and this is the exact SDK that you would need to program with AWS,
it's AWS SDK 2 point,
whatever version the current version is,
and you run PHP composer.phar install,
and that will install all the dependencies,
it will create a vendor file for you which when you create a PHP function,
you use require and then,
the name of the path to this SDK.
So, you would have an array of functions that you can use and they are
all denoted in this AWS SDK on their website.
You can look at everything they have.
Just go ahead and look up AWS SDK for PHP and it has every function you can create.
You can upload to S3,
you can manage your RDS,
you can manage your EC2 instances just as you would with the AWS client on the terminal.
Anything you could do there, you could also do it programmatically,
in this case of PHP using the AWS SDK for PHP.
And, that kind of covers what you can do with S3.
Moving on would be to CodeCommit.
CodeCommit is basically AWS's version controlling.
It's like GitHub or Bitbucket but managed through AWS.
To do that, on the top again,
you go to Services where it says Developer Tools, you find CodeCommit.
And, just like every other version and control,
you create repositories with GIT.
So let's say, we want to create a repository called myapplication,
description, this is my app and go ahead and create the repository.
And then, you have the option of connecting with HTTPS or SSH.
You can go and close that.
If you want to clone the URL,
you click here HTTPS,
you grab this, and you connect to it like you would any GIT version control system.
Except the upside of using CodeCommit
would be instead of having to invite users through email like you would on GitHub,
Bitbucket or anything like that,
you can directly use your AWS's IAM users,
and you give them the role to use CodeCommit,
and it's all within the same ecosystem.
The beauty of it is that it's on Amazon.
You don't have to rely on anything other than Amazon to manage your code,
deploy it, and do everything.
So, AWS CodeCommit, basically streamlines GIT for AWS resources.
And other than that,
it's just the same as any other GIT version and control system that you can use.
And, that about covers it for this lesson I think, right?
Yeah, sure.